---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---
> Look at the license for the project that you evaluated last week. In your blog, describe (in human readable terms, not legalese), what the terms of that license are.

Semester.ly uses a GNU General Public license, which essentially guarantees that anyone who gets the software is entitled to the source code, and is allowed to modify and redistribute it as they please. It also specifies that when the software is redistributed, the same freedoms granted by the license *must* be passed on to other recipients of the software. However -- this does not prevent those who redistribute modified or unmodified versions of the software from charging, as well as the initial distributors of the software. (It specifies: `When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price.`.)

Other intricacies include:
+ Modified software must be indicated as such
+ The license itself is not modifiable
+ The software cannot be patented to make the software non-free

> In your blog, report on the experience of installing the dev. environment (did it work, are the instructions detailed enough, can you think about improvements to the instructions, if it failed, what went wrong? did you figure out how to fix it? )

Installing the dev environment was a pretty lengthy process but thankfully the setup instructions are well detailed, at least for a Mac. I had trouble setting up the environment with Docker, which is the first option for installation, but it was the fault of Docker, not the project itself. The Python virtual environment / Node package manager setup were long processes but nothing crazy difficult, just a lot of sitting through downloading dependencies.
