---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

> What do YOU think about when you hear the term "open source"? What are some advantages of open vs. closed source, what are some potential problems with open source, why did you decide to register for a class about open source software development?

When I think about "open source", I think about transparency and collaboration. As a means of production, open source development is inherently more transparent than private development as all of the information regarding the process and components of a product are available publicly. While private development can often be collaborative internally, open source projects open collaboration to anyone willing and able to participate.   
  
Some potential problems from open source probably lie in its monetizability, and in intellectual property. While open source licenses and intellectual property laws do exist, the fact of the matter is once your source is out in the open, people can essentially do whatever they want with it, no matter whether you have legal recourse to stop them.  
  
I registered for a class on open source software development because I'm fascinated by community building on the internet, and I think open source is a really great encapsulation of the sort of openness and egalitarianism that the internet facilitates, and I'm excited to learn more about the technical aspects of open source development as well as to get a chance to involve myself in open source development.

> List names of four open source projects that you regularly use or that influenced you in some way in the past; give brief descriptions for each, explain why you use it and what the alternatives might be

### 1. Wordpress  
Wordpress is a content management system / templating language built on PHP and MySQL. I work in web development and pretty much exclusively develop websites using Wordpress. Wordpress is a powerful and flexible tool for building scalable websites of varying levels of complexity. It can be used out of the box with pre-existing themes, tweaked by smaller developers using child themes, or completely gutted to provide custom solutions. Similar alternatives are services like Drupal.

### 2. Google Fonts
Google Fonts is a service run by Google that aggregates and acts as a content delivery network / hosting service for open-source fonts. Fonts are essentially vector-based shapes, which means that they can be represented by code, like SVG, unlike raster images. Google Fonts is great for me as a student, because I don't really have the budget to be paying something like $30 a month for up to 100,000 views when I'm working on non-profit personal projects. Google Fonts itself is not exactly an open source project, but all of the fonts hosted on Google Fonts are open source and free to use.
  
Similar open-source alternatives are sites like the League of Movable Type or Fontsquirrel, which also offer open-source fonts although largely without hosting services. Similar proprietary services would be sites like Typekit, (now Adobe Fonts), or Fonts.com, which offer a selection of private fonts for web use for a subscription fee.

### 3. SASS
SASS (Syntactically Awesome Stylesheets) is a CSS preprocessor built using Ruby. While CSS is powerful, it is often inconvenient in its robust-ness -- you can't (easily) define variables, re-usable code snippets, functions, or implement any real object oriented organization to vanilla CSS stylesheets. SASS makes writing CSS a lot faster and more powerful by adding in a lot of these missing invaluable features, like variables, performing calculations, boolean logic, mixins and object oriented styles.

### 4. Brackets
Brackets is an open source text editor developed by Adobe on HTML, CSS, and Javascript, with a primary focus on web development. I use Brackets as my text editor of choice because it's fairly appealing out of the box in terms of features and design, but mostly because of the great community of plugin developers around Brackets. Most of the time, if there is something that Brackets is not doing that I want it do, there is a good chance that someone has already developed a plugin that accomplishes what I need.